.TH BIN2TAP 1 "Date: 2013/13/07 01:00:00" "ZX Spectrum utils"
.SH NAME
bin2tap \- convert binary file into .tap file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBbin2tap\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIinput_file\fP
.SH OVERVIEW
The \fBbin2tap\fP program is a member of zxspectrum-utils(1) suite of tools. Use it to convert raw file into CODE block in a .tap file. Program can also create simple loader.
.SH DESCRIPTION
All options are optional except input file name. If some option is required and is not set, default value is used. Options are:

  \-p                     make BASIC program instead of CODE block
  \-a address             start address of CODE block,
                         default value is 32768
  \-x extra_address       extra address of CODE block,
                         default value is 32768
  \-o output_file         assign output .tap file. If this switch
                         is not set, program try to replace extension
                         of input file (extension is search in last 4
                         characters) by .tap extension. If he's not
                         successfull, join extension after name of
                         input file.

  \-b                     this switch include BASIC loader in
                         output file
  \-c clear_address       set address in CLEAR command in loader,
                         default value is 24575
  \-r run_address         set run address in loader (RANDOMIZE USR),
                         defaul value is 32768
  \-cb value              set BORDER colour to value, default value is 0
  \-cp value              set PAPER colour to value, default value is 0
  \-ci value              set INK colour to value, default value is 7
  \-d80                   create D80 loader, name of BASIC loader is
                         set to "run"
  \-append                append created tap at end of file
  \-hp | --header-poke    include POKE 23739,111 command for dissabling
                         tape headers

  \-h  | --help           print usage information
  \-v  | --version        print program version

BASIC loader for CODE blocks looks as follow:

  10 REM loader by bin2tap1.3
  20 BORDER VAL "0": PAPER VAL "0": INK VAL "7"
  30 CLEAR VAL "24575"
  40 POKE VAL "23739", CODE "o"
  50 LOAD  "name_of_file" CODE
  60 RANDOMIZE USR VAL "32768"

